Remember, monastic life isn't
binding; anyone can join or leave as they please. But once inside, you ca
n't cause trouble. You must ask permission before entering
and greet people before leaving. It's
not a matter of "you can come and go as you please."
Once we
've established a monastic community,
we have a very strict rule:
anyone who wants to join must
participate for six months to see if they're a good fit
for the community. Only then
will they be allowed in. After six months, they must say, "I am suitable for the community's activities, I request permission to join." If someone doesn't like it, they can say, "
I don't like the community's activities,"
for this reason or that reason, to
avoid misunderstandings. We
resolve the issue, and then they leave.
Initially, we don't select people,
but once established and operational, we
gradually increase the number of members
because we worked very hard
in the early days to
establish this community.  If
someone asks to join, let
them in immediately. They don't know, they're
mistaken, they don't know, they haven't been taught anything, they
don't know anything, they're disrupting our Dharma Hall.
This is clear, isn't it?
My Dharma Hall isn't structured like this, we
practice like this. You come here, you participate, if you
feel it's suitable, you practice, if it's
suitable, then you stop. Then people
won't speak ill of our Dharma Hall, they wo
n't disrupt our Dharma Hall. But if
you just join and register your name, of course you have to be
allowed to give your opinion. If you haven't
joined yet, you're not allowed to give your opinion
much, you can only observe to see
if you're suitable or not, you're not
allowed to discuss or not allow
anything. What should I comment on? It's easy to believe,
right? The Dharma Hall is very strict. But
actually, it's not very rough. Because this is
established by the Dharma practitioners, the Dharma practitioners create an environment for
the Dharma practitioners. The Dharma practitioners themselves are similar, and the Dharma
practitioners must be disciplined, right? Who else causes
us trouble? It's the people
around us who cause us trouble. And who can make
us stop being troubled?  The brain is also the people
around it. Therefore, we must
build a very
strict environment in the training of the mind, a
strict environment that forces you to
live a better life, not a
strict environment that forces you to belittle others.
For example, if you want to be a
child of Buddha, you must take refuge in the Buddha. If you do, you must take
refuge in the Buddha, not in the celestial realm.
If you have already taken refuge in the celestial realm,
then you don't become a child of Buddha, right? Taking refuge in the
Buddha is very easy, like
other things. For example, if you go to the Buddha's teachings and then
go dancing, you're not a
child of Buddha, the Buddha won't accept you as a child,
right? Not taking refuge in a false teacher is like taking refuge in the
Three Jewels. That's not right. But taking refuge in a
false teacher
is like taking refuge in the Three Jewels. What is that? What does the
teacher say about taking refuge in the Three Jewels? It's not good. In Buddhism, we say that any karma can be transformed through practice. The essence of
Buddhism is transforming karma,
transforming the number of things. But if you
use it...  What's going on? It's a charm, a spell, a curse, a curse, a curse, a
curse. He's an outsider, not a god, Yu. The other day, C went to this guy's house, a family member of his. He saw his father, and the child immediately stood up, meaning from the beginning, he teased his father, then he teased his child. The couple could sleep, but they all got drunk. And the house has been in chaos
since January, just like Master
C. There are many masters, high-level sorcerers, all kinds of things, and
it's getting more and more frequent.
It means it gets better for a few days, then it goes back to being like that again. The other day, Yen came to Ham, and the
house was like a
charm, it was stuck in the place where the child
slept, in
the middle of the sleep, meaning wherever the child sleeps, the charm is stuck
there, the charm is stuck ...  The Ninh family's
spells and charms are all gone, understand? My only
solution is to give alms, which is to accumulate
merit. If you let go, your merit will
increase. You can't use
another deity and bring them here to press this deity's seal, or press the old deity's seal again. The old deity
already caused
my house to catch fire. At first, I didn't
understand the signs, I didn't see any
symptoms. Just the first deity
made the symptoms worse. Then I
tried the second, and then the last one. I
don't know what you mean, but you said to worship the three big, powerful deities. And the
others... I do
n't know how much each one cost,
but they cost hundreds of millions. That's the
solution. Then, when the
Buddha returns, I'll have all the charms and
everything will be done. I'm very
happy, I haven't seen any problems yet.
Call me
back if you have any issues. That's why I'm relying on the Buddha.
Although the Buddha allows voluntary action, that
voluntary action must be within suffering. You must receive
the karmic reward;
your actions and thoughts must change your destiny,
change your self-awareness.  It's not like you want to
become a Buddhist monk and then give away your blessings; if you do that,
you're dead, right? If you were like the
Buddha, there would be no great harm to the
Buddha, no danger to yourself.
So, in the monastic community, strictness
is very
strict and very thorough. Always follow the precepts. The main
purpose of practicing the precepts is
not to lie, not to speak with a double tongue, not to
speak with a double-edged tongue, not to speak
falsely. That's naturally the practice of the
precepts; we are very strict in the Dharma above and very different
below. But the matter of speaking ill behind someone's
back and gossiping is something
we should avoid. We should
cultivate our minds; that's all there is to
it, dear fellow practitioners. Establishing a
monastic community is just that.
Before, we used to spend all day
watching movies online and gossiping.
Now, we don't watch them anymore; we diligently listen to the Dharma,
diligently help each other, and talk to each other,
guiding each other, right? Actually, each of
our lives is like a movie; the energy of
going around
talking nonsense outside is just to waste time.  I just lost a few
calories. I'll eat dinner at home tonight, then tomorrow...
That guy... where is America? Did he fight France or
something? It's all about
a lifetime of self-interest. Thi Thi is the
neighbor's daughter, and today she's cursing her mother.
The picture of the couple having an affair... I see her house...
Uncle C added an extra pound of Lao rice for our house...
she sits there all day... does she understand? That
daughter-in-law of that woman... she's
so rich, she goes home and buys this... it's our family business, not ours. If only
we talked about buying our house, then we'd
still buy it for her parents.
What do we get out of it? We sit around gossiping
about our family business. It's not about valuing what's important. I
also mentioned some habits of the
neighbor: today he has new pants and a
new dress, his house is bright, he sits in his car all his
time, right? Other people
drive cars, we don't get anything from it, so why
sit there? I also said that
some habits we should abandon,
that time should be spent on ourselves to increase
our intelligence, to focus on self-cultivation in
our work.  I'm letting you talk, not just
sitting around rambling on from morning till
night, then talking about this guy and
that guy. That guy is just carefree, let him be. When he comes to
ask me, he'll be right there, but he's just talking to
himself, and I can't help him. The point
is, how do I get him to stop being
his boss? And then Phương reports, "Now you
're not even helping him, and you're
even correcting him, and he's not guilty of anything under my control."
Just stay at home, Quang, you're too
cunning, that unruly brat. If
my son were to chop him up, I'd chop him up. Who said to
give up that habit? Go ahead, Hữu,
right? So, seeing it is very
pointless, it doesn't solve anything, it just
creates trouble, right? It's just
karma to torment me. I'm saying
this naturally, naturally, I'm saying, "If my
son were to chop him up, that would create karma, and you'd be
sitting around doing nothing, throwing away
your own life, right?" For example, if you
see your neighbor's husband picking up and dropping off his
wife, you think your own husband is worthless, and you don't
bother to fix your own husband, you just keep talking all
day.  Go and watch other people's husbands, that's
really nice, but what can you solve? If they
like taking care of their wives,
their husbands take care of their wives, but they don't take
care of me. So,
like this husband who curses a lot, I'll just give him a
break, right? Just sit there and be greedy.
Participating is also very tiring.
I'll give some examples so that
I know to gradually get rid of my bad karma. I do
n't think it's right, right?
[Music]
[Applause]
An